An last video we talked about composable components and components are really at the core of re-act
you can't really do react to that.
Understanding what a component is.
So let's get started with our first component.
So our objectives are simple we're going to create a re-act component and then we're going to use react
arm to render that component on the page.
So let's get to some code.
Let's get started with this HDMI file.
So we're going to learn react without any added tools or build files or anything I want to focus just
on the very basics to get started.
So what am I including here.
Well first of all there's a script for reacts.
That's our re-act library that we're about to learn.
And then the second one is poor re-act dom.
And the reason those two are separated is because re-act is actually used in a lot more places other
than just the Web.
There's also Riak native and re-act for V.R..
So the core component of re-act is separated from the DOM component which we're going to be using here
in the web.
And finally we're including re-act Dom factories.
So we're going to be using this to create some Dohm elements that will show on the page.
So let's get started with our first component.
The first thing I want to do here is create a class.
So every re-act component is going to need to have class and you should call it something that's relevant
for the component you're creating.
So here we're going to create a pet component it's going to show my pet cat moxie.
So I'll make a pet and it will extend re-act stock component again every component you create is going
to extend from component.
And as I mentioned earlier all components are going to have a render method.
Spell it right.
So there we go we've got a render method now.
And the gold render method eventually is to return some HCM mail that we want to put in the DOM.
And the way that we're going to do that is by using a factory provided by this library here react on
factories to create elements for the page.
So the first element I'm going to create is an H2 and I'm going to set that equal to reacts factories
that H2.
Now this is a function that takes first as a parameter what attributes you want inside that too.
So we're going to start by just giving it no.
The second parameter is what you'd like inside that age to tag.
So I'm going to put a string Moxey inside H2.
Next thing we're going to create is an image for Moxey.
So I'm going to say react on factories again that image this time we actually want to give it some attributes
because we want to provide the source for that image.
So I'm going to provide a objects inside of there I'll give it a source and my source I'll copy right
here.
It's going to be an image of Moxey and then you should also always provide an alt attribute.
So just name it.
Moxey my cat.
All right now we've got our age to Dom element and we've got our image of what we need to put on the
screen and with re-act you can never return multiple components next to each other you always have to
put it inside of one Dom element.
So I'm going to return now.
Re-act Dom factories that div..
So I'll put both of these inside of a div it'll have no attributes and then the elements that I want
to put inside that div are my age to first and my image second
Okay now I have my finished component.
It's a it's got a render method and it returns some DOM element.
So let's see it in the browser.
All right so in my browser and I don't see anything and if I open up the developer tools look at the
console there is no heir's So it's going on.
Well let's go back to the code and take a look what's going on here is that we've created a component
but we haven't actually rendered it in the DOM yet.
And to do that we're going to have to use re-act Dom render So remember re-act Dom here is what we're
using to render something on the screen.
And we always have to do this and every app that we create with reacts we're going to have to tell it
where to hook our components into the DOM.
So I'm going to call re-act Dom here render and the first thing that you want to provide is the element
that you want to render.
So I'm going to say reacts create elements of pet.
So that creates a HDMI element out of my pet component and the next thing I want to do is decide where
in the Dom to put it.
And I've already got this div here so I'm going to get that element by id and then put my re-act component
there and the DOM.
So say documents get element by id
and pass an app.
Right so this is just plain old vanilla javascript's.
We're just getting an element out of the Dom and then we'll use that to render our component.
OK.
Now with that change let's see what's going on in the browser.
All right.
And as you can see now we've got that age to appear Moxey and we've got the picture of Moxey as well.
So there you have it.
We've got our first component in reac.
Let's take a look at it in the code one more time.
Remember the main things here are that we need react react.
And in this case we also need react on factories in order to create the elements that we want to create.
And finally once we create our component using this class syntax we need to tell re-act where we want
to render this component in the DOM using react on render.
Now I should mention that this is not code that you'll typically write with react but this is react
at its lowest level.
No extra tools no fancy things going on just HVM Ellen javascript's nothing else.
Next up will start learning about some tools that help make this process much much easier.
So we don't have to use things like react on factories.